SONIC ROBO BLAST II - FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS
================================================
Last update: 25th July 2001

GAMEPLAY QUESTIONS
------------------

Q1. When's the finished game coming out?
A. To quote 3D Realms - "When it's done". Most of the e-mails we get ask this, and this is your answer. We are not setting any definitive release dates for a long time - when the game is nearly done, you'll hear about it on the site.

Q2. Why does Knuckles' sprite look just like Sonic's sprite?
A. Knuckles' sprite (and his coding) is not complete. So far, he functions as a character (he can glide and moves around with the appropriate acceleration and physics). Climbing walls WILL be added at a later date.

Q3. Will Shadow / Rogue / Grinding / (Insert SA2 gameplay element / character here) be in the game?
A. No. We are strictly sticking to the classic 'Genesis Sonic' feel. If you want Shadow and Rogue, make your own skin.

Q4. How do I play online?
A. Using the new launcher (as of Demo 3+):

Decide which player should become the game's host (the person with fastest connection should do this - Cable/DSL is highly recommended for hosting).

TO HOST A GAME:
Open the launcher. Go to 'New Game', 'Multiplayer', 'Host', 'Host Game indepedently' (the 'IP Server' is in beta stages at the time of writing) - Find out what your IP is by clicking on 'Your IP: Click Me!' and tell those who are joining. Set the 'Max Players' to the number of players joining the game (it is important that you do this - other players can't join if the 'Max Players' is set too low, if in doubt, set it to 99), then select the type of game you wish to play. When you're ready, click on 'RUN!'

Whenever you see 'New node has joined the game', the pull down the console (under escape on most keyboards) and enter 'MAP MAPXX' (where XX is a number from 05-09) to restart the map and let new players join.

TO JOIN A GAME:
Once the host has told you his/her IP address, goto 'New Game', 'Multiplayer', 'Join', 'Manual Connect', 'Manual IP' and input the IP address address that the host has given you. When the host is ready, click on 'RUN!'.

A good place to find some games to join is on the #srb2 chatroom - Goto the 'Chat' section on the STJr site (http://stjr.emulationzone.org) for more details.

Q5. I've got some problems with the online play...
A. PLEASE bear in mind that the game is still in Beta stages and bugs need to be ironed out. However, there are some more common problems that we can address...
Q5i) I've done everything right. I've given my friend my IP address and I'm sitting around waiting for him/her to join... but he/she doesn't. I ask my friend if he's going to join and he/she says he/she is trying to! What's going on?
A. If the IP address reads '192.168.0.1', you're on a network and have a firewall active. Easiest cure: Try playing on the 'Master' computer of a network, which should give away the IP address more 'freely'. Otherwise, you're pretty much stuck. This has been known to pop up with Windows 2000, although we've not been able to test this yet.
Q5ii) The game is really slow!
A. Internet latency. In most cases, the effects should be next to non-existant (fast connections) to about a half-second delay (slower connections). The best way to reduce this is by common sense - if the server is on a 56K modem, hosting 3 players (which is already pretty inadvisable) and downloading a load of mp3s off Napster, then of course there's going to be heavy latency.
Q5iii) How do I talk using this thing?
A. Press 'T' and then type in your message.
Q5iv) I get kicked from games with 'Consistency Error' messages!
A. Patches are frequently released for the game. If you have an out-dated and an updated version of a game playing, the two will get confused and ultimately, the server boots the offending players. Therefore, if you patch a game, it is advisable to keep the first 'original' version to allow yourself to play with newcomers to the game.
For example, Demo 2 will not be compatible with Demo 3. Changes in the level-design or warping to non-existant levels (in Demo 2's case) will cause the game to crash.
Q5v) Where is everyone? I told my friends to join the game and all I say is "New node has joined the game" - What gives?
A. They HAVE joined the game. Unfortunately, they will not be brought into play until the next map change. Do to this, you'll need to pull down the console (under the escape key on most keyboards) and enter 'MAP MAPXX' - where 'XX' is replaced from a number between 05 to 09 (as of Demo 3). 01-04 maps are playable, but not recommended as they are single-player levels and will not be as enjoyable for some multiplayer modes.

DEVELOPMENT QUESTIONS
---------------------

Q6. Wow! I want to make a game using the same game creator you used to make SRB2! Where do I find this?
A. We did not use a program like 'The Games Factory', 'Click & Create' or 'Multimedia Fusion' to create SRB2. We used the DooM Legacy source code (http://www.newdoom.com/doomlegacy) and pretty much recoded most of the code to suit a platform game. HOWEVER, Doom .WAD editors and the like can modify the SRB2 game just fine.

Q7. I want to make an epic-huge mod from SRB2 Demo 2 / Demo 3!
A. This is highly inadvisable. The list of changes we'll make between Demo 2 / Demo 3 and the final game will be enormous. Therefore, if you create a mod for the Demo, it probably wouldn't even work for the final game, and you'd be missing out a lot of great features we're planning to add. Until then, try something a little less ambitious.

Q8. I want to edit levels for SRB2.
A. You'll need a DooM level editor. The popular choices are either WADAuthor (easy, Windows, but not very powerful, ultimately) or DCK (harder to use, DOS-only but has a lot of potential for editing SRB2 and making mods). You can grab either of these editors from Doomworld (http://www.doomworld.com). You will also need a copy of 'Doom II' to edit levels.
Q8i. Where do I get a copy of 'DooM II'?
A. The number of times people ask us the question is pretty unbelivable. You can grab 'DooM II' at most video-game stores for less than $5 now. We will NOT distribute the game through any medium (FTP, sending privately over ICQ, IRC, similar) - PLEASE do not ask us.
Q8ii. How do I get started?
A. Doomworld also has some nice tutorials for you to follow, and while these don't pertain entirely to SRB2, they're close enough. We'll add tutorials on more advanced level editing once we're done with the game.
Q8iii. Hey! That WGD diary on level-editing doesn't work! It's got lots of broken links on it!
A. That was originally put up almost 15 months ago, and was designed to be used with the now-ancient 'Halloween Test' engine. The files have since been removed, and as they are dealing with such an out-of-date version of SRB2, there's no point in sticking them up.

Q9. May I get the source code to SRB2 / When will it be released?
A. Right now, we would prefer NOT to distribute copies of the game's source, as it is still in development / beta stages, and it would be highly impractical as we make very frequent updates to the code. In one month, the version of the code we'd have distributed with Demo 3 , for example, would be quite archaic.

As we are strongly encouraging development of mods and add-ons for SRB2, we will be releasing the source code in due course, when the game is complete and fit for public distribution. At this stage, the code should be more or less finalized and ready to be modified. 

OTHER QUESTIONS
---------------

Q10. When's SRB3 coming out?
A. My personal answer to this is "Never." - questioning other STJr members on this matter - for example, A.J Freda, produces the following result:

"ARGHHGHHAGHAHHAHH DIE DIE DIE KILL KILL KILL MURDERRRRRRRRRRRRR"

Therefore, if not for my own safety, it would safe to assume that SRB3 is not coming any time in the forseeable future. Future projects are being bounced around, but NOTHING is definitive yet.